README.md, before:

# Calculator Project – Git & GitHub Version Control Assignment

## 1. Project Overview

This project is a simple web-based calculator built using **HTML**, **CSS** and **JavaScript**.

The primary goal of this assignment is not the calculator itself, but to demonstrate my understanding and practical usage of **Git** and **GitHub**, including:

- Initializing a repository  
- Making meaningful commits  
- Working with branches  
- Merging branches  
- Intentionally creating a merge conflict  
- Manually resolving the merge conflict  
- Pushing all changes to GitHub  

## 2. Project Screenshot

![Calculator Screenshot](Screenshots/project.png)

## 3. Repository Setup

### Initializing Git

The local Git repository was initialized and the project files were committed.

```bash
git init
git status
git add .
git commit -m "Initial commit: calculator project"
```

![Initial Setup](Screenshots/01_initial_setup.png)

## 4. Connecting to Github

The local repository was then connected to my remote GitHub repository, and the initial code was pushed.

```bash
git branch -M main
git remote add origin <repo-link>
git push -u origin main
git pull origin main
```

![Connecting to Github](Screenshots/02_connect_remote_and_push.jpg)

## 5. Creating Branches & Making Changes

Two feature branches were created:

- text-update-a
- text-update-b
  
Both branches intentionally edited the same line inside index.html to produce a merge conflict later.

### 5.1 Branch: text-update-a

```bash
git checkout -b text-update-a
# Edited index.html
git add index.html
git commit -m "Update description text (version A)"
git push -u origin text-update-a
```

![First Branch](Screenshots/03_branch_text_update_a.png)

### 5.2 Branch: text-update-b

```bash
git checkout main
git checkout -b text-update-b
# Edited the SAME line in index.html
git add index.html
git commit -m "Update description text (version B)"
git push -u origin text-update-b
```

![Second Branch](Screenshots/04_branch_text_update_b.png)

## 6. Merging Branches

### 6.1 Merging Branch A into Main (Successful)

```bash
git checkout main
git merge text-update-a
git push
```

![Merge first branch](Screenshots/05_merge_first_branch.png)

### 6.2 Merging Branch B into Main (Conflict)

```bash
git merge text-update-b
```

![Conflict Markers](Screenshots/06_merge_second_branch(conflict).png)

## 7. Resolving the Merge Conflict

```bash
git diff
# manually resolved conflict in index.html
git add index.html
git commit -m "Resolve merge conflict in description text"
git push
```

![Resolved Conflict](Screenshots/07_conflict_resolution.png)

## 8. Git log after Merge Resolution

Complete commit history.

```bash
git log --oneline --graph --all
```

Commit message:

Added Reflective Note
Updated the reflective note section to summarize learnings about Git and conflict resolution.

README.md, after:

# Calculator Project – Git & GitHub Version Control Assignment

## 1. Project Overview

This project is a simple web-based calculator built using **HTML**, **CSS** and **JavaScript**.

The primary goal of this assignment is not the calculator itself, but to demonstrate my understanding and practical usage of **Git** and **GitHub**, including:

- Initializing a repository  
- Making meaningful commits  
- Working with branches  
- Merging branches  
- Intentionally creating a merge conflict  
- Manually resolving the merge conflict  
- Pushing all changes to GitHub  

## 2. Project Screenshot

![Calculator Screenshot](Screenshots/project.png)

## 3. Repository Setup

### Initializing Git

The local Git repository was initialized and the project files were committed.

```bash
git init
git status
git add .
git commit -m "Initial commit: calculator project"
```

![Initial Setup](Screenshots/01_initial_setup.png)

## 4. Connecting to Github

The local repository was then connected to my remote GitHub repository, and the initial code was pushed.

```bash
git branch -M main
git remote add origin <repo-link>
git push -u origin main
git pull origin main
```

![Connecting to Github](Screenshots/02_connect_remote_and_push.jpg)

## 5. Creating Branches & Making Changes

Two feature branches were created:

- text-update-a
- text-update-b
  
Both branches intentionally edited the same line inside index.html to produce a merge conflict later.

### 5.1 Branch: text-update-a

```bash
git checkout -b text-update-a
# Edited index.html
git add index.html
git commit -m "Update description text (version A)"
git push -u origin text-update-a
```

![First Branch](Screenshots/03_branch_text_update_a.png)

### 5.2 Branch: text-update-b

```bash
git checkout main
git checkout -b text-update-b
# Edited the SAME line in index.html
git add index.html
git commit -m "Update description text (version B)"
git push -u origin text-update-b
```

![Second Branch](Screenshots/04_branch_text_update_b.png)

## 6. Merging Branches

### 6.1 Merging Branch A into Main (Successful)

```bash
git checkout main
git merge text-update-a
git push
```

![Merge first branch](Screenshots/05_merge_first_branch.png)

### 6.2 Merging Branch B into Main (Conflict)

```bash
git merge text-update-b
```

![Conflict Markers](Screenshots/06_merge_second_branch(conflict).png)

## 7. Resolving the Merge Conflict

```bash
git diff
# manually resolved conflict in index.html
git add index.html
git commit -m "Resolve merge conflict in description text"
git push
```

![Resolved Conflict](Screenshots/07_conflict_resolution.png)

## 8. Reflective Note

This assignment helped me understand how Git manages project history and handles parallel development. I learned how branches allow me to work independently without affecting the main project, and how merge conflicts naturally occur when two branches modify the same part of a file.

Creating two separate branches (text-update-a and text-update-b) and modifying the same line in index.html helped me purposely generate a merge conflict. When I attempted to merge the second branch, Git paused and indicated the conflict in the terminal as well as inside the file using conflict markers.

```bash
<<<<<<< HEAD
=======
>>>>>>> branch-name
```

I used **git diff** to inspect the conflicting changes and then manually edited index.html to combine the correct parts from both branches. After resolving the conflict, I staged the file and completed the merge with:

```bash
git add index.html
git commit -m "Resolve merge conflict in description text"
```

This experience taught me how Git thinks, how it isolates changes across branches, and how to resolve conflicts safely. It also reinforced the importance of writing clean commit messages and pushing code frequently to a remote repository.

Overall, this project improved my understanding of distributed version control and gave me practical experience handling real-world Git workflows.
